README.md, before:

# LaTeX Slides

Here I store my [LaTeX](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/LaTeX) template for [beamer](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Beamer_%28LaTeX%29) slides. It is loosely based on the corporate design of the University of Science and Technology of China (<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Science_and_Technology_of_China">USTC</a>) [中国科学技术大学].

## Usage

1. [download](https://github.com/thomasWeise/latexSlides/archive/master.zip) the template
2. edit `slides.tex`
3. in order to produce a pdf of your slides, under Linux run
  1. `./scripts/latex.sh slides evince` if you are using `eps` figures
  2. `./scripts/pdflatex.sh slides evince` if you are using `pdf` figures
  3. `./scripts/xelatex.sh slides evince` if you have Chinese text
  
## Available Commands

### Put Objects at Specific Locations

Sometimes we want to locate stuff at specific positions on a slide. For this purpose, the following commands are used, which all operate on a `x-y` coordinate system where `x=0, y=0` is the top-left corner of the slide and `x=1, y=1` is the bottom-right corner.

1. `\locate{when}{what}{x}{y}` position the content (`what`) at the specified `x-y` coordinates. If `when` is not empty, wrap everything in an `\only<when>{...}`, i.e., only display something at the specified sub-slide id range. You may put an `\includegraphics` as contents.
2. `\locateWithCaption{when}{what}{caption}{x}{y}{width}` locate the content of `what` at the specified `x-y` coordinates. Put a `figure`-like `caption` below it. Reserve the given `width` (between `0` and `1`, relative to slide width) for everything. The `width` is reserved to know how to break the caption if it is longer than the contents (`what`).


### Citation

1. `\citep{ref}` cite reference `ref` by number
2. `\scitep{ref}` cite reference `ref` by number, pre-pend non-breakable space. For use in text, like `bla bla blablabla\scitep{ref}`
3. `\citet{ref}` cite reference `ref` by author names followed by number
4. `\Citet{ref}` cite reference `ref` by author names followed by number at beginning of sections (make first character uppercase)
5. `\citete{authorRef}{refs}` cite references `refs` by number, but pre-pend the author names of reference `authorRef`. This is useful if a group of authors has produced several works, but the author order changes in these works.
6. `\Citete{authorRef}{refs}` like `\citete{authorRef}{refs}`, but capitalize first character.

### Chinese

Include chinese text with the command `\zh{chinese text}`.

Commit message:

Some Improvements, added commands, and updated docu

README.md, after:

# LaTeX Slides

Here I store my [LaTeX](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/LaTeX) template for [beamer](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Beamer_%28LaTeX%29) slides. It is loosely based on the corporate design of the University of Science and Technology of China (<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Science_and_Technology_of_China">USTC</a>) [中国科学技术大学].

## Usage

1. [download](https://github.com/thomasWeise/latexSlides/archive/master.zip) the template
2. edit `slides.tex`
3. in order to produce a pdf of your slides, under Linux run
  1. `./scripts/latex.sh slides evince` if you are using `eps` figures
  2. `./scripts/pdflatex.sh slides evince` if you are using `pdf` figures
  3. `./scripts/xelatex.sh slides evince` if you have Chinese text
  
## Available Commands

### Structural Commands

The following structural commands should be used in exactly this order (while `\appendices` and `\printSectionOutlines` are optional).

1. `\startPresentation{optional}` start the presentation and put the `optional` content on the outline slides, if any. After this, your slides should come.
2. `\printSectionOutlines` optional: a section outline should be printed at the beginning of each section
3. `\endPresentation` ends the presentation by putting a goodbye screen and the references
4. `\appendices` starts appendix sections. Maybe you want to have some more slides in store if someone asks questions. Can be left away if there are no appendices.

### Put Objects at Specific Locations

Sometimes we want to locate stuff at specific positions on a slide. For this purpose, the following commands are used, which all operate on a `x-y` coordinate system where `x=0, y=0` is the top-left corner of the slide and `x=1, y=1` is the bottom-right corner.

1. `\locate{when}{what}{x}{y}` position the content (`what`) at the specified `x-y` coordinates. If `when` is not empty, wrap everything in an `\only<when>{...}`, i.e., only display something at the specified sub-slide id range. You may put an `\includegraphics` as contents.
2. `\locateWithCaption{when}{what}{caption}{x}{y}{width}` locate the content of `what` at the specified `x-y` coordinates. Put a `figure`-like `caption` below it. Reserve the given `width` (between `0` and `1`, relative to slide width) for everything. The `width` is reserved to know how to break the caption if it is longer than the contents (`what`).
3. `\locateGraphic{when}{arg}{path}{x}{y}` locate an `\includegraphics[arg]{path}` via `locate{when}{\includegraphics[arg]{path}}{x}{y}`. Arguments are passed forward as indicated. 
4. `\locateFramedGraphic{when}{arg}{path}{x}{y}` same as `\locateGraphic`, but puts a frame around the graphic.
5. `\locateFramedBox{when}{width}{what}{x}{y}{background}{foreground}` locate a framed box of  the given `width` (relative to the slide width) at coordinates `x-y` at sub-slides `when` (or always, if `when` is empty). The contents of the box are `what`. The box will use `background` as fill color (or white, if `background` is empty). The frame will be in color `foreground` (or blueish, if `foreground` is empty).
6. `\begin{lobateBox}{when}{x}{y}...\end{locateBox}` locate the contents of the environment at the specified `x-y` coordinates. If `when` is not empty, only display at the specified sub-slides.
7. `\begin{scaledBox}{width}{height} ... \end{scaledBox}` an environment which scales its contents to the given `width` and `height`. If `width==!`, then we scale proportionally according to `height`. If `height=!`, then we scale proportionally to `width`.

### Listings

1. You can use all the normal commands from package [`listings`](http://ctan.org/pkg/listings).
2. `\begin{listingBlock}[width]{caption}...\end{listingBlock}` place a block with the specified `caption` which is supposed to contain a listing. The `width` can be specified relative to the paper width, if omitted, we use `0.95\paperwidth` as block width.

### Citations

1. `\citep{ref}` cite reference `ref` by number
2. `\scitep{ref}` cite reference `ref` by number, pre-pend non-breakable space. For use in text, like `bla bla blablabla\scitep{ref}`
3. `\citet{ref}` cite reference `ref` by author names followed by number
4. `\Citet{ref}` cite reference `ref` by author names followed by number at beginning of sections (make first character uppercase)
5. `\citete{authorRef}{refs}` cite references `refs` by number, but pre-pend the author names of reference `authorRef`. This is useful if a group of authors has produced several works, but the author order changes in these works.
6. `\Citete{authorRef}{refs}` like `\citete{authorRef}{refs}`, but capitalize first character.

### Chinese

Include chinese text with the command `\zh{chinese text}`.
